Come back in this video I would like to introduce you a little more to this cute creator or give you
some more information about the Skewes creator.
So what I have here are a bunch of layouts and lay outs.
They can allow you to lay out things in a certain way.
So let's say I have this vertical lay out things in there new elements will be displayed vertically
in there.
OK so if I drag something in there let me make this whole vertical lay out a little bigger and by the
way if I can't access the vertical layout by clicking on it I can select it from the right hand side.
So you on the right hand side you can select your elements.
And I just press on the vertical layout and then I can resize it again.
So I'm going to resize it.
OK so you can see very easily I can now change the elements in a vertically vertical way.
You have the grid lay out where you can position things in a grid form where you position the next to
each other as well.
Then you have the horizontal lay up where you can put stuff right next to each other.
This is year does vertical loudest putting of elements on top of each other and then we have for example
some spacers which just create some space in between elements.
And we have buttons and we have seen some of them for example or push button just just a normal button.
Then you have the tool button which can be used in order to open up some more options for example.
Then we have the radio button we have used that one.
So we have just used those radio buttons here on the side.
Then the check box we've seen that as well then yeah there are plenty of different buttons here.
Item views and so forth.
So for example if we check out the containers.
So there are multiple different containers such as a group box for example.
So when a group box will do this it will group elements in there within this group box.
So for example if I want to have a form then I can put all the different elements in here so I can add
something like a text fields or play like an a line edit where a user can enter his username for example.
Then another one word can enter his password and so forth.
So he just put those in here.
Make it a little bigger than a button.
The bottom of it is you can see now this is a group box and I can change that to let's say log in for
him and this push button will say something like the log in.
And as you can see those two they are not equally high.
And if he cannot get the right size by dragging and so forth you can always check out your options here
on the side.
So for example for this bottom here this should be the password.
And I have this geometry here which says 161 times 121.
Now this one in comparison is 161 to 24.
So I can make this 124 pixels high.
So let me change it.
You just opened it up here you can see you can always get more details and it can change to hide to
let's say 24.
Now they are the same size.
You can have of course copy and paste them as well but generally you can see that here on the right
hand side you have plenty of options that you can choose.
You can choose the minimum size the base size you can change to fund even and so forth.
You can get a tool tip something like password could be a good tool too for this element here if somebody
hovers over this field then he will see the tool tip and so forth.
So you can see plenty of good stuff and it's pretty easy to adjust it so you can very easily adjust
the elements in here.
You can see this cue widget has plenty of properties that you can change any time.
Now we have something like a scroll area where we can put many different objects when we have too many.
Then you can scroll in it.
So this will allow us to scroll inside of it and I'm going to get rid of it because I want to use it.
You have the tab widget which is a pretty cool one we can create multiple tabs.
So let's say you have the log in form in the first tab and make this whole screen a little bigger.
So I will drag this over and this is not about making this whole thing beautiful it's really just about
showing you the different options that we have.
So this is going to be Tab 1 and I want to change the name of Tab 1 or the text that it set dates of.
Tab 1 and I can do that and.
Q tab widget here to drop.
Scroll down and here you will find the current tab text and the current tab text is Tab 1 and I could
say something like the log in and then the second one would be something completely different something
like Hello.
And in this low one I just have this button which just doesn't do anything but it's there.
So you can move around and you have pretty much is a behavior of multiple types so it's pretty cool.
Then for example a combo box.
So let's add this little combo box here and this combo box we can easily add some elements in here so
let's say this combo box will contain something like mathematics.
Math math takes then informatics
in English.
So if somebody is an English major and stuff like that and this will be biology
and so forth.
So now if somebody selects this combo box he can choose from those options.
Then you have a line edit.
We've seen that one where we can simply add one line but there is also something called a text added
and something called a plain text and it's going to show you both of them.
So this text added here here it can actually added text and adjusted so you can see it's up to him all
that I can write in here with rich text and you can see the source code behind it.
So those two email source code behind it and it can just say something like hello world and make these
Hello bold and maybe in a different font size.
Even so simple as that.
But this plain text here this plain text and it is really just very basic text which I cannot edit.
So no adding or editing here.
OK then you have a very horizontal scroll bar so if somebody should be able to scroll or even a horizontal
sliders you can at that where somebody can slide back and forth aunt date time so somebody should be
able to edit his date and his time so they had time edit he or somebody can select the date.
You have spin boxes or you can just spin around with the values double spin boxes.
We also have a floating point in there that you can add labels.
So for example the label here would say something like your major or your subject or something like
that.
Your subject.
So if a student should select something here and so forth so you can see there are a bunch a bunch of
different widgets and layouts that we can use.
And that's very powerful because we can pretty much direct stuff in then connected to our code and pretty
much use it so we could use the user input from this log in screen can use to user input from a text
editor or a plain text edit or from a date selection here so somebody could select his birth date and
so forth.
So I'd say now it's time to check out how his user interface looks like once we pretty much created
in our pie chart.
So for now we just created this UI at this UI limits and we cannot interact with them.
We can only drag around in the UI itself but we cannot pretty much select them and use them as if they
were standard applications.
So let's build it again because we need to build that file.
But.
You have to save it right so you have to save this file control as then you can go back to pide charm
and run your bill.
Why file so run this part built.
And once that is done our main window.
P Y will be adjusted.
So now you will see there are a bunch of new lines of code.
So we have added a combo box of plain text that added a text added horizontal slider all those kind
of things we have added all of that in there.
And now what we can do is we can run our main Y because it still contains the main window that we had
created.
And now if we run that's let me select main and run main.
You will see I have my UI so I like this I have multiple choice here just one choice to then I'm in
informatics major or my subject is informatics.
I can slide stuff around here I can change the dates and here I can just play around with pretty much
all of those forms So here's our tab.
Log in and hello click me.
Of course nothing happens.
Same with log in here I can enter something.
So you see it's not that difficult.
It's actually quite easy and you already have all the tools to do so.
Now of course you might say man I want to direct with it.
I want to do something in code so for example if somebody clicks this button then I want to have a pop
up or I want to see some information or something change.
Well of course we're going to do that later on.
But for now we are going to look at a little more into the qued creator so see in the next video.